---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Progress in Programming
date: 2020-09-01
labels:
  - Management and Information Systems
  - University of Hawai'i at Mānoa
  - Shidler

---
<p>
1. My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

I have developed a greater understanding of programming languages, programming applications, and functions. When I began this class I only possessed a very basic and entry level understanding of HTML and CSS. I did not understand server and client side processing, consoles, stylesheets, and the variety of file extensions that I have learned to create as a result of ITM 352. I am now able to understand and implement these programming skills into my codes and assignments.

2. I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

I need to go back and review some labs in order to develop a greater understanding of the skills that I have learned. I have found myself rushing through some of the labs in order to meet their deadlines and not fully grasping some of the material I have learned. I know if I go back and review some of the readings and rewatch some of the screencasts, I will be able to better understand the material and program better in the future. I'm very happy that W3Schools exists! It has helped me a lot when I need a quick answer or need to practice my programming skills.

3. I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions first.

I always try the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions. Then, I identify where I am having trouble and try to finish the WOD as best I can. I watch the screencast solution and then return to attempt the WOD again. After watching the screencast solution, I find that I am usually able overcome the areas that I had trouble in and complete the WOD within the desired time. The WOD that I had the most difficulty in thus far was Invoice 4 because I had issues with my code from SmartPhoneProducts3 and Invoice 3. This taught me to always resolve any issues with other assignments that may be part of the WOD before beginning it.

4. The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.

I believe the labs have really expanded my knowledge of programming and I continue to learn a lot from them. It is helpful to complete them in class with Prof. Port and other students. I am able to watch and interact with the completion of the lab. I find it helpful that many others find themselves stuck on the questions that I am stuck on! It is helpful to remember that the computer is stupid and programming is not as difficult as it seems.

5. I feel ready to work on the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications like Assignment 1).

At first I thought Assignment 1 was very daunting and would be extremely difficult. Although it was challenging, it was easier than I expected! I feel as if I am ready to face more assignments and challenges and learn more from them.

6. I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

I think the class is great as it is and I am learnign a lot! The only thing that confuses me sometimes are the due dates since they are very dependent on what we complete in class, but I am trying my best to keep track of all of them!

7. These are things that work really well for my learning in this class:

The screencasts and lecture recordings are very helpful. If I have difficulty with any part of my assignments or labs I can go back to these resources to reference them. Thank you!


</p> 


```
